### Introduction

This project looks into the correlation between competitive pressure and customer rating for major venue categories. The basic idea is that, if a venue is far way from other venues in the same category, the customers may have fewer choices and less bargaining power, which may have an impact on their ratings. On the contrary, if similar venues agglomerate in the same area, they have to compete harder for good ratings. One potential reason is that, customers subconsciously increase their bar for "good rating" when exposed to more choices. Another potential reason is that, there is an upper limit of good ratings in the psychological account of each customer for a give area size. This is an interesting question to explore because it will shed light on how we, as customers, value intangible factors. It also has business implications on location choices.

### Data

This project will utilize data from Foursquare. Four fields are important to this study. One is the venue category. Several major categories will be chosen to see if the findings differ across different categories. The second field is the rating, which is the outcome variable which we will focus in this study. The remaining two fields are latitude and longitude. They will be used to calculate the distance between any two venues, which will be further used to measure the competitive pressure for each venue. For example, it can be defined as the number of other venues in the same category within certain miles. In practice, information on 150 restaurants in New York was collected. For each restaurant, we know its rating and how many other restaurants around it within 500 meters.

### Findings

Based on the 150 samples collected, it was found that most restaurants are surrouned by 20 - 40 restaurants within 500 meters. Most of the restaurants (127 out of 150) have no rating. The remaining have ratings range from 5 to 8.5. When a restaurant is surrounded by more other restaurants, it is more likely to have no rating, which support the idea that it might be ignored by customers due to high competitive pressure. On the other hand, when conditional on positive ratings, if a restaurant is surrounded by more other restaurants, it is more likely to have higher rating, because of either high incentive to do better or a resut of survivorship bias. However, we should also carefully interprete those findings given the relatively small sample size.
